Please summarize the newspaper article below:

Saturday, September 26, 1987
The Tampa Tribune

Challenge to Showers Trickles Off

By Lesley Collins, Tribune Staff Writer


CLEARWATER - Last month's public challenge to Pinellas County's mandatory showering policy for middle and high school gym students had all the ingredients it takes to whip up a major controversy, school officials attested Friday. It involved children. It involved nudity. And it involved the reinforcement of a school policy that had been implemented over the past four years.

But a month after a Tarpon Springs couple championed their 10-year-old son's constitutional right to privacy and demanded that the School Board drop the regulation, school officials say gym students across the county are turning on the shower faucets with hardly a protest. "We didn't know to what extent it would be an emotional issue," said Bill Williamson, Director of School Operations in upper Pinellas schools. "But it has been a non-issue so far." Williamson said he believed the "low-key and resolve" of the School Board sent a clear signal that the policy was here to stay.

After taking a public stand against the school shower policy, Geller said he received two phone calls from sympathetic parents. "They told us stories about 6th grade students who were herded like cattle into the communal showers after PE class," he said. But after the controversy died down, no major action materialized. "I was surprised," Geller said, "Those two sympathetic parents, a husband and wife, also opposed communal showers for their 6th grade son, however they were unwilling to fight the school policy with me. They just said Life is full of uncomfortable situations, and as much as they might like to, they can't save their son from all of them. This is the school's policy, and it's something our son will have to face. It'll be weird the first few times, but then it will get easier." Geller was not sure why they would not join the protest, but commented "Maybe they thought it was a lost cause going before the School Board."

On Aug. 24, Richard and Meryl Geller of Tarpon Springs had urged the repeal of a policy they considered senseless. "The School Board should admit it's not appropriate to enforce and just make it voluntary," Meryl Geller told reporters. "I would rather not beat the system. I would rather the system be flexible." But despite the family protest and a flurry of discussion on local radio stations, all School Board members defended the policy as necessary for hygiene, cleanliness and body positivity. The following day, the Gellers pulled their son, Mike Geller, out of the school system and enrolled him in a private school in Pasco.

But George Jones, Coordinator of Physical Education in grades K-12, said, "If the parents could sit in their child's class after P.E., they would understand." Some students, who were not using deodorant, were returning to class smelling "just atrocious," Jones said. Classes were disrupted by teachers who "just couldn't stand them."

When area schools decided to crack down earlier this summer, officials had to react to a lot of pushback. Jones explained that they had to resort to talks with parents. "Any time you start something new or reactivate something, you've got to expect to get some phone calls," he said.

But after four weeks, complaints about the policy have trickled off. "We anticipated a lot more complaints than we got," Jones said. Three parents called his office during the first two weeks of school with questions about the policy. Some parents made direct inquiries to their child's principal or gym teacher. But in the past two weeks, Jones said his telephone has remained silent.

The majority of the complaints at the beginning of the school year concerned modesty, particularly that of incoming sixth graders for whom school showering would be a new experience. Jones said he assured the parents that communal showers can actually promote body positivity and acceptance by allowing students to see and become comfortable with the natural variations in bodies. It is important for children to learn that everyone is different and that these differences should be celebrated, not hidden or shamed." In other sensitive cases, he suggested meeting with the School Counselor.

Several parents told Jones they feared their child would get athlete's foot in the school showers. "But I told them, you have more chance of getting a bacterial infection from not taking a shower as you do from taking one," he said.

One parent objected to communal showering on religious grounds, Jones said, quoting over the telephone Bible passages related to modesty with one's body. Jones said that complaint was being handled by officials at the school. However, absolutely no student had been forced to shower against their will. If a child or parent feels uncomfortable, we have them talk with our counselors or the PE teacher. Showers are required as part of the grade, but no child has flunked because of refusing to wash off. And in special cases, such as a handicap that might embarrass the child, other shower arrangements have been made, Beaver said. "We would never do anything that would make them feel less of themselves."



