Please write a summary of the following:
Carl Anderson, Retired PE Teacher at Tarpon Springs Middle School, had one daughter named Tracy Anderson.  Tracy was a super-achiever and dated Rakesh Patel while in college.  Tracy Anderson and Rakesh Patel got married right as they graduated college, however Tracy Anderson kept her name unchanged.  Tracy Anderson was white/Caucasian whose family was traditionally protestant Christian, but always were open to other faiths and cultures. Rakesh Patel moved to the United States with his parents at the age of 7.  Rakesh Patel was Indian as his parents and family all lived near New Dehli India prior to migrating to the USA some decades ago.  Rakesh Patel family was traditional Hindu, but always were open to other faiths and cultures.  Tracy was successful in her career as a "high powered lawyer" often making with a salary at her prestigious Flordia law firm over $1 million per year.  Rakesh Patel was even more successful as had worked his way up to to managing all of SpaceX's Starship operations and managed several hundred highly paid and talented SpaceX staff.  Rakesh Patel's salary at SpaceX was "only" $700,000 per year, and he joked with Tracy that he made less than she did.  However,that was an inside joke, as Rakesh Patel was actually the "technical genius" who frequently worked closely with SpaceX founder Elon Musk.  Rakesh Patel was so critical to SpaceX's operations that he was listed as a key employee on the SpaceX website and Annual financial reports.  Rakesh Patel also received generous stock options from SpaceX which over the past 5 years earned Rakesh Patel over $50 million.  Despite their wealth, Tracy and Rakesh choose to live in a modest house not far from  Tarpon Springs Middle School in Pinellas county, Florida.  They did not want their wealth and success to make them loose touch with have a regular, unpretentious life.  Tracy and Rakesh had many friends in their community, and while most were vaguely aware of Tracy and Rakesh's financial success, that was mostly forgotten as they drove 10 year old cars, and Rakesh mowed his own lawn.  Tracy and Rakesh lived like normal, typical people.
The article is talking about the life of Carl Anderson, a retired PE teacher at Tarpon Springs Middle School, who has a daughter named Tracy Anderson. Tracy Anderson is a successful lawyer and married to Rakesh Patel, who is successful as well and works as the manager of SpaceX's Starship operations. Tracy and Rakesh Patel have different ethnic backgrounds, but their families are open to other cultures and faiths. Both Tracy and Rakesh earn high salaries and have received generous stock options from SpaceX. However, despite their wealth, they chose to live in a modest house near Tarpon Springs Middle School and maintain a regular, unpretentious life. They have many friends in the community who are aware of their financial success but often forget because they live like normal, typical people.
